In this application I implemented my own transfer function. I decided to take inspiration from the paraview transfer function. I really like that transfer function not its incredible functionality, but for the fact that it is very easy to use. In fact, the user can basically interact with the values of opacity and color using the widget. The user my moving the point in the graph up and down can modify or add opacity points. To add the user will simply click on a space that is not used by other points. To modify the user will just click on point (selecting) and move around the graph. The color function display the colors currently use in the transfer function. And it can be modified by simply clicking on the bar to add a point. Upon clicking the color bar the user then can select the color of his/her choice, by simply modifying the rgb values that will appear on the left of the screen and that the user can interact. Moreover, the user will see the preview of the color select in a small box. The user also has the possibility to select and move the points in the color map. Also by pressing the letter “d” the program will enter in delete mode and it can delete the points previously added. When a circle is selected on the top of the screen will appear  a rectangle with the values of the current position.
The user also have the possibility to set shading and the use set the isovalue. This will change the color map, but it won’t be possible to add or modify colors or opacity. The isovalue slider will only allow the user to see selected range of iso value with different colors. This part was implemented by the professor and I decided to leave inside to have extra functionality. I didn’t implement these features. 

I was able to run the program given by the professor and by tweeting the iso value and playing the shade toggle and using the hydrogen dataset I was able to discover that the most the value of the data set are located in the first one third of the isovalue slider. The color that was predominant was blue which is the first color in the color map. I actually really like the shader toggle because it give to the image a more realistic look and also in this case it was easier to look at the picture (image1 vs image2). I think this tool is very useful, but it has its limitations in fact the color are fixed and opacity also is fixed, and you are not able to play too much with the data in order to display important information that are hidden in data or maybe just have more filtering in thing to display in data.   


I decided to use the dataset pig and tooth. In the pig dataset by leaving the shading toggle on I was able to see the “famous” flowers(image3) mention in class by the professor, which I haven’t see in the past assignments. I also able to see better the material of the base of pig which is wood (image 3), with three holes in the base. Also I even discover the coins in the pig (image4) I didn’t know that there were coins in it and I was actually surprised to see and find them in the pig.  In the tooth I was able to see better the inside of tooth (image5) and be able too see how the nerves looked like a tree inside of it. In my design I think the strengths are the fact that you can easily play around with the data and you Are able to successfully perform transform operation, on the other hand it is not too sophisticate and in same data set this simplistic approach can hide aspect of the data and the user will need more time to achieve some transformation that with more advance tools takes a couple of second. If I had more time(this doesn’t mean that this homework was too long but I personally didn’t have time to implement this part) I would implemented a histogram of the data. This will allow the user to find faster the area of interested. Volume rendering is very good to visualize the data and color different values with different colors helps to filter/select the data. Moreover, it gives an overall idea on how the data looks like. However , it can be hard too move around the volume and to filter/select data of your interest. 
